2023-06-02 Stefan Baumgartner (#216)
rustacean-station/rustacean-station.org: _episodes/interviews/2023-06-02-stefan-baumgartner.md

---
title: "Shuttle Launchpad with Stefan Baumgartner"

> date: 2023-06-02T15:22:00Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-06-05T16:04:00Z
```

file: https://audio.rustacean-station.org/file/rustacean-station/2023-06-02-stefan-baumgartner.mp3
duration: "56:28"
length: "54215311"
#reddit: (leave blank on initial publish, amend with link and uncomment this line after Reddit thread has been posted)
---

Allen Wyma and [Zeeshan Ali Khan](https://github.com/zeenix) talk with [Stefan Baumgartner](https://twitter.com/ddprrt), contributor to the [Shuttle Launchpad](https://www.shuttle.rs/launchpad) tutorial series on Rust.

## Contributing to Rustacean Station

Rustacean Station is a community project; get in touch with us if you'd like to suggest an idea for an episode or offer your services as a host or audio editor!

- Twitter: [@rustaceanfm](https://twitter.com/rustaceanfm)
- Discord: [Rustacean Station](https://discord.gg/cHc3Gyc)
- Github: [@rustacean-station](https://github.com/rustacean-station/)
- Email: [hello@rustacean-station.org](mailto:hello@rustacean-station.org)

## Timestamps

- [@00:00] - Introduction

> - [@01:45] - What is Shuttle Launchpad and what is the inspiration for creating it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@01:45] - What is Shuttle Launchpad and why was it created
```

- [@03:34] - Shuttle Launchpad initial development
- [@06:39] - Supporting multiple backends and databases
- [@08:32] - How did Stefan get into Shuttle

> - [@10:27] - How did Rust help with Shuttle’s major security issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@10:27] - Rust, Shuttle, and security
```

- [@12:57] - Rust community in Austria
- [@15:27] - Rust Linz
- [@17:33] - Stefan's career background
- [@21:19] - Understanding the value of different languages for different teams and communication needs

> - [@25:34] - The importance of effective communication between developers when it comes to using programming languages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [@25:34] - Developer communication
```
